README.md, before:

# plastic-patrol

_NOTE_ I highly recommend running "echo REACT_APP_USE_PROD_DATA=false >> .env" before running the app.

To start the webapp, just `npm start`

# Testing

To test, run `npm test`. This covers both the main app and our Firebase cloud functions.
To start up Jest in watch mode, run `npm run app:test:watch` and it will monitor your files
for changes and report if any tests break as a result.

# Functions

## Local Execution

To run functions locally, follow the instructions [here](https://firebase.google.com/docs/functions/local-emulator) to set up
the firebase emulator. You will need to set up credentials and `export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` before running the emulator
(probably also add it to your .bashrc).

_NOTE_ These should be **dev** credentials!!

When you make changes to the typescript, you will need to manually `npm run build` in the functions/
directory to have those changes picked up by the emulator. Once that is up, you should be able to:

```
curl http://localhost:5001/plastic-patrol-dev-722eb/us-central1/computeStats
```

And see the result.

## Unit Tests

To unit test functions in isolation, run `npm run functions:test`

# Scripts

## firebase.js

```
node scripts/firebase.js
```

This is an example script demonstrating how to interact with firebase via node. It pulls in config.json from the main app so will respect
`REACT_APP_USE_PROD_DATA` as well.

## stats.js

Currently just fetches up-to-date stats for staging. Note that this bypasses the cache and is recomputed each time you run it, so don't run
it against production data.

# Travis

After changing any secret file:

```
cd cordova-app
tar cvf secrets.tar build.json *.cer *.p12 *.mobileprovision *.keystore
travis encrypt-file secrets.tar secrets.tar.enc -p -r Geovation/plastic-patrol
```

# Releases
TODO

CI manages the release of dev versions of the app to https://plastic-patrol-dev-722eb.web.app/#/
When creating a PR there's no need to bump package.json as that happens during the build process where we'll then tag the new version we deploy to dev.
Exact details on version bumping can be found [here](https://github.com/phips28/gh-action-bump-version)
If you want to bump a major vesion include "major" or "BREAKING CHANGE" in a commit message
Minor version include the string "feat" or "minor"
Anything else will be a patch version

Commit message:

Add translation feature (#389)
* Add react-i18next

* Update most pages

* Add English translation JSON file

* Add German translation JSON file

* Implement synonyms in categories provider

* Always store the category label in English version to firestore

* Update README

* Other fix: add unique key to suggestion label button

* Other fix: increase functions memory

README.md, after:

# plastic-patrol

_NOTE_ I highly recommend running "echo REACT_APP_USE_PROD_DATA=false >> .env" before running the app.

To start the webapp, just `yarn start`

# Testing

To test, run `yarn test`. This covers both the main app and our Firebase cloud functions.
To start up Jest in watch mode, run `yarn run app:test:watch` and it will monitor your files
for changes and report if any tests break as a result.

# Functions

## Local Execution

To run functions locally, follow the instructions [here](https://firebase.google.com/docs/functions/local-emulator) to set up
the firebase emulator. You will need to set up credentials and `export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS` before running the emulator
(probably also add it to your .bashrc).

_NOTE_ These should be **dev** credentials!!

When you make changes to the typescript, you will need to manually `yarn build` in the functions/
directory to have those changes picked up by the emulator. Once that is up, you should be able to:

```
curl http://localhost:5001/plastic-patrol-dev-722eb/us-central1/computeStats
```

And see the result.

## Unit Tests

To unit test functions in isolation, run `yarn functions:test`

# Scripts

## firebase.js

```
node scripts/firebase.js
```

This is an example script demonstrating how to interact with firebase via node. It pulls in config.json from the main app so will respect
`REACT_APP_USE_PROD_DATA` as well.

## stats.js

Currently just fetches up-to-date stats for staging. Note that this bypasses the cache and is recomputed each time you run it, so don't run
it against production data.

# Travis

After changing any secret file:

```
cd cordova-app
tar cvf secrets.tar build.json *.cer *.p12 *.mobileprovision *.keystore
travis encrypt-file secrets.tar secrets.tar.enc -p -r Geovation/plastic-patrol
```

# Releases
TODO

CI manages the release of dev versions of the app to https://plastic-patrol-dev-722eb.web.app/#/
When creating a PR there's no need to bump package.json as that happens during the build process where we'll then tag the new version we deploy to dev.
Exact details on version bumping can be found [here](https://github.com/phips28/gh-action-bump-version)
If you want to bump a major vesion include "major" or "BREAKING CHANGE" in a commit message
Minor version include the string "feat" or "minor"
Anything else will be a patch version

# Translation

Translation is based on i18next. The setting file is at src/custom/i18n.tsx.

Each language has its JSON file under src/locales directory. Please follow the format in en.json to create new language JSON file. If the language JSON file does not exist yet, the fallback language is English.

To check if the translation works, please change the preferred language order in browser or mobile phone.
